ladies and gentlemen please welcome mr.
Victor Davis Hanson
[Applause]
you only have about an hour or so good
evening everyone
you might know me as John hi Bush I have
the honor of being the executive
director of the Ronald Reagan
Presidential Foundation and Institute
thank you for coming this evening in
honor of our men and women who defend
our freedom around the world if you'd
please stand and join me for the Pledge
of Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag thank you please be seated well as
we get started there's a couple that I'd
like to recognize in the audience today
you will recognize them one of the best
governors of California has ever had
Pete Wilson and his wife
before we get started with our event
this evening some of you like me might
have looked around the auditorium and
asked yourself the same question I did
how is it that of all people a classics
professor can fill an auditorium like
this
this was not an easy ticket to get if
you waited more than a few days hundreds
of people had to be turned away
unfortunately but when one considers
that this scholar this honoured fellow
this syndicated columnist this
award-winning academic this political
commentator this presidential appointee
and this author of 24 previous books is
Victor Davis Hanson well then the
question answers itself I don't know if
there are any former fortunate students
of Professor Hanson here tonight if so
all of us envy you most of us gathered
here have only gotten to know Victor
Davis Hanson not through semesters of
academic study and personal interaction
rather we have had to settle for the all
too brief appearances from afar on Fox
News for example or perhaps read his
scholarly papers articles editorials
book reviews and of course his own books
they cover a dramatic range of subjects
from the classics to military history to
Foreign Affairs domestic politics in
contemporary culture now I don't know
about you but when I see him on TV I
actually lean in
I leaned forward it's because I want to
really carefully listen to him I know
I'm going to see and hear a
demonstration of highly refined but
practically spoken intellectual
horsepower his sweep of knowledge in
history
distilled as it is into logical
arguments that every one of us only wish
we could so eloquently make ourselves is
the equivalent somewhat of a two-by-four
but rather than hitting your liberal
neighbor across the fence over the head
with it
because they insist that our nation can
afford the green new deal or a free
education for all or a thousand other
such ridiculous ideas you need only
simply quote professor Hanson to prove
they're wrong many personal injury
lawsuits have been avoided this way
today professor Hanson comes to us what
with what I think is his 25th book
called the case for Trump I don't often
quote from book jackets but here I
cannot resist it sums up the book so
well you have to get this book that I
believe that professor Hanson probably
wrote it himself
let me quote
quote to trump alone had the instincts
and energy to pursue an opening to
victory dismantle a corrupt old order
and bring long overdue policy changes at
home and abroad
after decades of drift Hansen argues
that America needed an outsider like
Trump to do what normal politicians
would and could not do a fact that
explains the furor directed to Trump by
the political in media status quo close
quote it is a marvelous book written by
an extraordinary talent before I
introduce our guest this evening I want
you to know I did some math on your
behalf imagine for a moment we were all
students at Stanford or the u.s. Naval
Academy or Berkeley or peper 9 where he
has taught before now consider that we
had the rare opportunity after we all
paid our tuition to elbow our way into
one of his courses on any given semester
at about 12 to 15 weeks per semester two
classes per week in tuition bidding what
it is a stays divided by to subtract the
for the next hour of instruction you
receive will cost you somewhere between
three to five hundred dollars
considering the fact that all of us here
tonight are here for free we are getting
a real bargain my fellow students class
is in session please join me in
welcoming our professor Victor Davis
[Music]
thank you very much I'm a little worried
about the money because you might want
to refund as I said to John I I feel
like a rescue dog that's been battered
the last 10 days and I found a nice home
think I'll stay with you but I think in
the last 10 days
[Music]
I think I've been called in print racist
sexist nativist and worse things yet but
I kind of wonder I feel like that that's
not going to happen tonight so it's so
strange yeah
anyway no I'm sure you're amongst
friends professor so thank you so much
for coming I had I you know I read a lot
of books and this one I so enjoyed
because I just have to say if you picked
this book up every page reads like one
of the best op eds you've you've ever
read it is so well put together so thank
you and I do think you'll enjoy your
time here in the next many minutes
professor I I wanted to start by reading
three lines from an early page in your
book that I hope you recognize I bet you
will
and ask to see if you might expand on it
because it's a perhaps of potentially
really frightening concept you say quote
without their overwhelming fealty or
barring another transformative Reagan
candidate neither Trump nor any other
contemporary Republican candidate will
likely again find a pathway to the
presidency yeah explain well at a time
that stick the Obama administration the
Republican Party at the state and local
level picked up about almost 1,100
offices and yet in five out of the six
last national elections it lost the
popular vote
it hasn't won 51 percent of the popular
vote since Lee Atwater you remember the
Boston Harbor ad the tank add all of
that again at least some of us do
controlled enough against Mike Dukakis
so there was something missing there in
the Republican message at the
presidential level and I think part of
it was that
two things very quickly one there became
a mindset that we didn't want to be
called certain names racist sexist
homophobic esporte whatever it was and
so we thought by playing by the marcus
of Queensbury rules that that magnum
entity would be reciprocated in kind
when in fact it was considered weakness
to be exploited or condemned or pitied
and so we didn't really and I'm thinking
here of george w bush who was just
treated terribly between 2007 and 8 nazi
brown shirt and didn't respond and so i
think people felt there were two things
one way they wanted somebody who would
respond they felt that even if Trump was
chemotherapy at least he'd kill the
cancer before you with the host and the
second thing was that the message they
felt that you just don't you just don't
write off the interior of the United
States and say it's de-industrialized or
their deplorable so they're cleaners are
their wacko Birds or their crazies that
these are noble people and that and that
and you don't say that China's
predetermined to run the world when one
American we have one-third that the
population of China still have we have
roughly three times the GDP and blunt
terms one American produces goods and
services of the equivalent of three
Chinese counterparts and yet we're told
all the time China China China you can't
do this you can't do this so there were
a lot of things that had to be talked
about in a way that Trump did and yet
that message was a very focused on the
key states where the election was going
to be decided Wisconsin Michigan
Pennsylvania and I don't know if anybody
everybody said Trump was the only
candidate that could lose to Hillary I
think he was probably the only
Republican candidate that could have won
and he'll he might have been the only
two that they could have lost but
[Applause]
make America great again
I don't know how many had a chance to
look at these slides as they rotated
before the event began but there were
several that were campaign posters and
buttons and things from Ronald Reagan's
campaign in 1980 you know in which
Ronald Reagan said and strongly
advertised let's make America great
again now knowing that my sense is the
what the media is doing is they're
viewing whether it's the Hat of a
statement or whatever that this is
president Trump's way of wanting to take
America back to the 1950s pre Civil
Rights premi to free women's rights pre
all those things and that that's
essentially what one ought to read into
those four letters or four words is that
your view is that the way you think this
is playing itself out and is that your
view where you think Donald Trump wants
to take the country I don't think he
wants to take it back to the pre-civil
other you're you're confirmed with
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez at just that
that Ronald Reagan was a racist not very
long ago as well as FDR no I think that
what he's trying to say let's make
America great is in the narrowest sense
there's no reason why the United States
had should have not achieve annualized
GDP of 3% since 2006 and why why can't
we have a record low minority
unemployment and record P stood near
three point seven three point eight
we're almost record peacetime
unemployment and who says that we that
there is such a thing as peak oil and
perhaps maybe we can add three million
barrels of oil production since he's so
there was no artificially imposed
politically clear limits and then he
looked at a time where he fell
that this country when Reagan was
governor was about so I don't like to
use those term because we're all mixed
up in many families they don't really
mean it very much unless you're
Elizabeth Ward and you have a DNA test
but we were about 90 percent so-called
white and then maybe twelve ten percent
so-called african-american and Latino
but in every culture that has a dominant
population there's problems there is an
Iraq there's a one what was unique about
the United States that was baked into
our founding that all men are created
equal so you had a constant process of
self correction and self-criticism and
we were evolving into what had happened
with the Italian experience where
Italians came they were mostly
democratic and today if her name is
Giuliani or Pelosi you don't know what
your why your ethnic cachet you can't
tell that was the goal and I think we
were working toward that and so when
what Trump says that I think he thinks
that race or ethnicity should be
incidental not essential to your persona
but what's happened that almost
everything is politicized and ethnic or
identity politics term that the
immigration has now become a demographic
Club to beat the opposition with and
that we're supposed to self-identify as
as I'm a I'm a Latino I'm gay I'm this
I'm that and I understand what it's the
everybody has pride in some kind of
identification but it should be I'm an
American citizen and what's unique about
what's really unique about this country
is that none of us can go to China and
be fully accepted as Chinese you can't
go to Mexico and be fully accepted as a
Mexican citizen unless you look like the
majority population I can tell you as
someone who's lived overseas for three
years I could never be fully accepted as
Greek because I don't look Greek and yet
this is a country where we've come so
far and that's your appearance your
superficial appearance is not as
important as your embrace of
constitutional shared values and yet the
very thing that that we're so good at is
what people most criticize us for so I
think Trump was trying to say I'm gonna
stop all that and I'm gonna try to get
back to the melting pot and in a being
Trump he wasn't subtle about that yeah
so on that very topic of subtlety you
know politics is often in the art of
language and you know if everyone in
this audience when you think Ronald
Reagan many many think of this the Great
Communicator he boy could he use words
right in your book you talk about when
President Trump uses words often times
you think he's quote clumsily
exaggerates you know Trump's being Trump
like Reagan was Reagan you know if you
could wave a magic wand and all of a
sudden Trump could be remarkable
communicator and sensitive with his
tweets and things like that you know
would Trump be Trump I'm trying to
determine if this is someone you know
yeah sure we'll fix him but I don't know
that Trump would be Trump I tend to
agree with that and you know everybody
who has bet on the opposite point of
view saying if he would just stop
tweeting if he would just expand his
vocabulary beyond a thousand words or
people just say
there are more adjectives in the English
language than awesome tremendous our
adverbs like Bigley but I don't think I
think you're right I think
what Trump is and all of his tweet
Twitter wars he's reactive he rarely
starts a fight he didn't start with :
Kaepernick he didn't even start with his
probably most notorious one with John
McCain well I thought was a mistake for
him to to besmirch John McCain but but
McCain had called his supporters crazies
and Trump was reacting to that when he
was asked about it
so he's reactive and he tries to bring
more mega tonnage in the reply than the
if the attacker and then you're very
unwise because most people have a
self-image and Trump's actually been in
a wrestling match physically so if you
want to get into a wrestling match with
him
you're gonna lose because he doesn't
care he's been in it and he doesn't have
a sense of I mean everybody has a
positive sense of self but it reminds me
I said to somebody in New York if you
were to rate a B and C D party-list
where would the Trump's be and he said F
and I thought that was one of the
reasons I liked it and there was
something have you noticed when that I
mentioned this but when Trump went
places he had this tight tie and the
hair and everything so if he was in
Alabama or Bakersfield or Flint Michigan
he had the same act Queens accent he was
authentically Trump when he'll we went
to the south or New England
it was you all and Boilermakers and
bowling when Obama went in the inner
city he sounded like he could drop his
G's when John Kerry was running he had
camouflage and ducks by the neck and I
asked he came to Tulare California and I
thought even Trump's gonna have to work
cowboy hat no he just stood out he had
his suit the long tie and the Queen's
accent so people did what no would
thought would be possible how could
people identify as a populist a
Manhattan billionaire with a Queens
accent that very little cut he pulled
off appearing more authentically pot
populist than a real populist like John
Casey CH who grew up as he always
reminded us as a son of a postman though
there are so many paradoxes that we
haven't really figured them all out yet
with Tom you know I'm not sure I think
Trump invented that he certainly is
quite used the term fake news and you
know I've watched from the very start as
he used that expression it was you know
well since news he either doesn't like
or he thinks just plain not written
fairly that's what you know to Trump is
fake news but I got the sense that as he
started getting more and more successful
in convincing people that these news
stories are just plain unfair and called
it fake news the media took the bait and
it feels to me like as much as they
dislike Trump there now have squit have
pressed editorial into news reporting
and they really he's positioned them as
the enemy and they've positioned him as
the entity the second part of what's
surprising to me that almost don't mask
the American media yeah would step
across the line and show a visceral
hatred in news reporting have you seen a
precedent for that is no and we can we
can say things but there are is data
that liberal Shorenstein Center at
Harvard said that the first six months
of what's been worse was 85% negative
coverage Obama was only 40
five and then got much better and
Trump's down to 90% these six months bla
we've never seen movie stars that
compete
whether it's Johnny Depp or Robert De
Niro or Madonna or Kathy Griffin they
have a competition whether they can
decapitate him burn him blow him up stab
him and then we've never seen the
administrative state or the progressive
media Nexus the moment he's elected
let's sue for the let's sue to abort his
presidency in three states by the the
voting machines no let's try to persuade
the electors not to follow their
constitution remember those ads don't
vote for him and then almost immediately
60s plus house representatives
introduced articles impeachment for each
set awarded and then we had the Logan
act that's calcified we don't use it you
then it was the 25th amendment that he
was crazy they had a psychiatrist
justify and then we had the Muller the
hysteria about collusion with the steel
fabricated stuff and then we had the
Muller the look September 5th of last
year we had anonymous and the New York
Times remember said he's actively along
with loyal Americans trying to thwart
the president I don't know what the
McCabe Rosenstein do you guys know it
was kind of in palace coup where they
were going to you know sort of take a
straw poll the cabinet before declaring
him crazy and removing an elected
president so the answer is no we've
never seen that and I think the medium
is two really important things about
Trump the first is that they just
thought he was crude or blunt but he did
he could at times display a level of
self-deprecation and even humor and
empathy that because it was such a
contrast with his public image that it
was quite effective he went all through
the Middle Midwest and I noticed he
started saying things that no Republican
had ever said he said he'd go to esa'
I'm worried about our vets I'm worried
about not the farmers our farmers I'm
worried about our machinists I'm worried
that our our our he got to West Virginia
and Hillary Clinton had come in
said well I'm sorry but we're gonna have
to bankrupt the coal industry you're
gonna have five new jobs and he said I
love big beautiful coal nobody in his
right mind would say big beautiful coal
he didn't care for his Polly wanted to
display an empathy and he carried that
state by almost 70 percent and then
finally very quickly they don't
understand the Nietzschean concept of
survival with Nietzsche said anything
doesn't kill me makes me stronger
so even independents are looking at him
now and I have members of my family that
didn't vote for him but they will
concede that the age of 72 to get up
after four or five hours of sleep and
hear your wife defamed your young son
your adult children defamed hear that
you're a crook a tax cheat the stormy
debt all of that and yet get up every
morning as if it's a new day and keep
fighting there's a begrudging respect
my wife reminded me of that I came home
two days ago and I said God this guy
called me a Nazi
and this other guy said I was a racist
and I said a guy on the plane wanted me
to sign a book he saw me and I sign it
then he put it back and hid it under the
seat and he said it's like a red mega
hat I can't show this and and I I said
god I don't know if I can take it and
she said oh shut up he or you're writing
about a guy you're writing about a guy
who takes more in one day than you and
your whole life so get with it so in
history as you know the country's off
sometimes been divided north south its
way we've often looked at politics
things like that but in your book you go
to some lengths to talk about what you
call I don't even know if it's your
words but they've forgotten interior and
it's a true it's a real expose on the
coast versus the interior of this nation
and that's where the new divide seems to
be here's my question on it I get the
sense from reading your book that that
you feel it's the Trump saw this and
from a strategic perspective took
advantage of it and followed a plan
along those lines in order to win yeah
and when I read that I thought you know
I don't know I you know just like it's
tough for him to put together a sentence
yet still run a country I was surprised
that at least maybe between the lines it
felt like you're implying that Trump was
a strategist that he had this in mind
and executed against it and I wonder if
it was just really his raw instincts or
did he really actually pursue a strategy
to go here go there and take it I think
it was a mixture of both I think that
first of all he's considered himself an
outsider an outer outer
Burrell Queens accent person that was
Garry Shandling ever be accepted in the
Manhattan elite and he wanted to be and
he thought that was unfair that he felt
by the basis of merit what his buildings
that he deserved more recognition so
there was a constant sort of anger at
the elite of New York and that made him
a little bit more empathetic he was a
builder he was not a high tech guy of
financier a media mogul in other words
he dealt with concrete physical things
I'm thereby by extension people who laid
cement and tyler's and unions so he he
understood he couldn't build a building
whistles guys were good and happy and I
think that gave him a level of insight
about the other America but he also had
16 very gifted rivals far more gifted
than two thousand eight or twelve field
and he had to distinguish himself and
then I think he did notice with an
innate cunning that they were sort of
emulating the Democratic PlayBook that
America had changed then they were going
to give an identity politics or I think
when JEB said illegal immigration is
basically a Zab you know it's an act of
love and they were sort of progressive
light and he saw an opening that he
could Double Down
especially when his advisors told him
that there was about five to eight
million people and I don't know what we
would call him John maybe the the Reagan
voter the the silent majority the Perot
voter the Tea Party they didn't want to
come out and vote for Mitt Romney and
probably didn't come out if you do the
math that didn't mean that he was gonna
win these states by a lot but if he were
to get them to come out and they would
vote 80% then he could flip these states
that nobody thought could be flipped by
60 80,000 votes less than a percent in
some cases Michigan was call most flip
Minnesota Ohio in sure Iowa and Indiana
North Carolina Pennsylvania and the
message was I guess if I would boil it
down is that under globalization
anybody's labor physical labor
muscularity that could be xeroxed abroad
was on the principle
you know you're irreplaceable that was
sort of crass but then the left or even
some people the Republican Party
reversed cause and effect they thought
because your labor could be Xerox
cheaper for machinery or manufacturing
therefore you were somehow culpable
I think somebody in the National Review
Kevin Williams said you got to get in a
pickup and just be your own fault it's
toxic culture and and they reversed the
cause and in fact and is it almost as if
losers who took opiates drove away
factories when it was just the opposite
and so he understood that there was that
that area had not been at loss I mean
Detroit in 1945 was the fastest growing
major city United States by some
calibrations at Symphony museums were
the finest the United States it had some
of the highest per capita wealth
Hiroshima was in ruins in by September
1st 1945 if you go to Hiroshima today it
looks like Detroit should have been and
Detroit looks like it was new and that
wasn't because of a war it was because
of globalization and changes in policy
and government big liberal big
government but what I'm getting at is
that he understood that the message of
the forgotten man had electoral
ramifications he also had a lot of
people who were in the shadows that that
we felt had been kind of losers
themselves or eccentrics I mean
especially Steve Bannon who might not
have been a steady sober and judicious
adviser but when they brought him on he
really honed that idea of the forgotten
man and a nationalist populist tweak we
shouldn't be too exaggerated eighty
percent of the Trump message
deregulation judges pipeline
construction GDP tax reform try to
appeal moment was purely Republican
conservatism it was that tweaking of
Bannon and others and then Peter like
people Peter people like Peter Thiel I
was at a dinner once and he happened to
be there and there was a very prominent
in America
name I won't mention but tore into me
for voting I was going to about to vote
for Trump and he said would the he's a
loser he has no analytics Hillary has
the smartest the best and the brightest
these are wonky SH these are Millennials
and mr. teal turned to me and said no
actually Trump has the best analytics in
the world said he does he said yes he's
concentrating on the only states that
mattered we know everybody said how
would you know and he said I designed
them and so there were people who helped
that campaign in various ways that
didn't get a lot of credit but deserve a
lot of credit
Mike Reagan was a transitional
transformative president there's no
doubt about it just he also noted that
Trump picked up on 80% of what's been
the Reagan Republican playbook for many
years do you think that what's Trump is
succeeding in doing is will he be viewed
in the future as a transformational
president that it's very hard to tell
because let's take wrong Reagan at the
beginning of 1983 we were still in
recession he was trying to break
inflation we had been so desperate to
break it we we had whip you know whip
inflation now buttons and I was farming
I remember an 83 I went to the
production credit we had a family farm
and I thought I was so lucky to get a
13% loan and I bought a used pickup for
nineteen and a half percent I thought
that was high and then I had sulfur bags
that I'd ordered sulfur and I noticed
that it said $4.99 $5.99 $6.99 they
crossed out the price the inflation was
so high that they were marking them up
in their inventory so and that was when
Reagan was president and then I noticed
every time he turned on the TV in 83 -
if you remember there was a Hollywood
movie about the end of days
wagon was gonna cause a nuclear or
winner I think they even Carl Sagan was
always her hectoring us about Reagan so
Trump is that that that position you
know and Reagan took a lot of heat and
broke the back of inflation restored
fiscal sobriety but it took really if
you look at November of 1983 and you go
back and look at polls the unnamed
Democratic candidate was running sort of
neck-and-neck and then between Nate
November of 1983 in November of 1984 the
economy grew at 7% GDP it's absolutely
stunning and then it was it wasn't even
close so we'll see what one of the
problems in writing a book is that the
news changes so you have to trust
historical instinct and analytics and
not get caught up in the 24 hour hour
but so I tried to suggest that what the
the measures that he's taken I think
we're gonna make him a very successful
president and he has that Reagan has
tendency one of the things I liked about
Reagan is that people told him all the
time he couldn't do something you can't
say tear down that wall you can't call
it an evil empire and his attitude well
it's evil as an empire why not its
people and that's what Trump is you know
they Trump you you can't get out of you
ran to you you cannot move the embassy
to Jerusalem the Council on Foreign
Relations will have a fit if you get out
of the Paris climate Accord that kind of
stuff and he doesn't care and that
empowers ya
you talk in the book at at some length
about this concept via the electronic
lynch mob yeah
the social media that permeates our
society today as relates to that
particular phenomenon in this specific
case involving this young fellow Nixon
and the Covington Catholic school I see
that he's maybe there's some real
serious attorneys that are going after
in the media and a lot of the media you
know to redress this knowing what you
know in our society do you think that
they might possibly succeed or you know
it's it's gonna be dismissed and we move
on well I was fortunate to grow up with
my mother was a second Superior Court
judge a woman in California and then I
think the second appellate court so I
always got lectures about the law and
she always would say I wish it were true
that cases are decided by the leg of the
law but so often the political
atmospherics they affect judges they
affect everything and there was
something about that young kid standing
there being hectored by this person who
had fabricated almost everything about
his life beating this drum and then that
electronic lynch mob that made him an
especially sympathetic character and so
he was overwhelmingly he won the the
sympathy of the country but I think what
we lacked there is that when we used to
watch westerns and when the mob went to
the jail to break in and Lynch the the
suspect there was always a sheriff with
a double-barrel shotgun we didn't have
anybody like this in fact I really liked
the editor and the publisher of National
Review but I almost came pretty close to
resigning because we had a big fight not
that they were on my side but some
people as you know in National Review
were part of the lynch mob and I thought
that that was just intolerable that
without any evidence and I I remarked on
it
David I did watch six or seven hours of
the video on anybody with any cognition
could see that what the story was and
then when he said that he gave the dates
of Vietnam you knew that anybody knew
the history the Vietnam War knew that
was impossible for him to be a combat
veteran you saw the the other things he
said and yet there was a deep there's a
deep illness in this country and it's
mostly from wealthy white liberal people
who want a virtue signal their own moral
superiority and as they damned white
privilege and they did that with Sagna
and they always do it the expense of the
working-class white person it doesn't
have white privilege it's almost like
somebody in Malibu can say I'm so sick
of the white privilege of that welder
and Tulare and therefore by saying that
then he gets he gets to have that big
fence around his estate and have
Hispanic help and he's exempt because he
said that and there was all this virtue
signaling everybody was damming this
sandy man and I was in a board meeting
of a philanthropic organization and
somebody happened to say this was
atrocious and we didn't even know that
one of the members had actually tweeted
to condemn this kid
so it was widespread and conservatives
many of the conservative establishment
were just as guilty as progressive and I
really got upset about that as I did
with a juicy Smollett case that was
another example that's sort of I mean
that was the it wasn't that kind of the
ultimate trajectory of identity politics
because what you were saying what he was
saying to America was I'm going to
create the most unlikely impossible
illogical scenario in the world and I'm
gonna make America believe it because
they're so deranged that I can get away
with it and so it wasn't just I'm
african-american but I'm gonna be
African American and gay I'm not just
gonna be African American gay I'm gonna
be African American and I'm gonna hate
Trump I'm not gonna be just African
American hate Trump I'm gonna be young
and hip
Empire I'm not just gonna do all that
but I'm gonna be walking at 2 a.m. and
I'm not just gonna be walking 2 minute
I'm gonna see two white guys who happen
to be prowling around liberal Chicago
not just two white guys are doing it
they're gonna have a maggot hat on
they're not just gonna have a mag a hat
on two white guys with a mega hat and
liberal Chicago are gonna say we're
gonna will prowl around because maybe
Jesse's small at whom we immediately
recognize and yell out as the enemy of
empire cuz we always watch Empire and
you know bob says to fred let's go out
and look for Jesse small at type people
tonight and by the way let's take some
lynched rope with us and then Jesse's
and if that's not enough let's get
bleached that that freezes that five
degrees and we'll throw it and defy the
laws of chemistry it won't freeze in our
case and then not only will will do all
that will beat him up and we're very big
but Jesse's juicy is very small but he's
a better fighter and he's going to fight
us off why he's got his sandwich in one
hand and his cell phone in the other
recording the whole thing that's what we
were asked to believe and the nation did
and so
I think that was a really I think
historians will look at that point and
say that is about the limitations of the
identity politics and after that point
it becomes a caricature because that
wasn't factually impossible to believe
in yet we wanted to believe because we
wanted to say that Magga
Trump supporters did this and there was
no possible theoretical abstract way it
was possible and yet we wanted to
believe because we were full of such
hatred and then when it was and then
what was really strange about it was the
therapeutic response what made him do it
who drove him to this he's obviously
disturbed I'm thinking no he just
libeled half the country and people were
walking around and that was that he
contributed to a hatred of a particular
person based on their race and yet
there's no contrition he's still
peddling this fantasy yeah so to that
exact point what I wanted to ask you
extraordinary description of the of
events that took place was that so
singularly ridiculous that you think
it's the incident could somehow play
like a an outsize or just a giant be a
giant influence in some respects on the
2020 election yeah I I do I think
they're cumulative as well I mean there
was the Virginia for to false rape
accusation there was a Duke Lacrosse
incident there was the Cavanaugh hearing
when finally Lindsey Graham had his have
you no decency moment as Robert Welch
good in the Karthi and then we had the
Covington and the juicy smaller I think
now people are so vaccinated or to that
that they don't believe it anymore
whether that's good or bad I don't know
but I think that they feel that there's
a large number of people in the United
States not a majority but a very
influential minority that exercises
influence and power far beyond their
numbers and they control the
universities they control entertainment
Hollywood professional sports the
Foundation's the media
and they're not empirical and they feel
that they don't just want to marginalize
conservatives they want to destroy them
and want to destroy what they represent
and I I don't think that's exaggeration
when Nicasio Cortez said that the
country was a little we don't have to be
ten percent better than garbage and that
FDR was a racist I thought to myself
well I understand that United States had
racist tendencies as all majority
populations do but it was already
self-correcting and that was that's the
story of the United States trying to
become better and I thought to myself so
all these people that Ocasio Cortez
never even heard of rotted on the
beaches of taro or they were blown up in
a b-17 or they froze to death of choice
and Rosa var and they did it for what
for this little person to come here and
say to them you have a garbage country I
don't think people have to put up with
and I don't think that I don't think
they have to put up with it and I think
the reason that her parents came to this
country is they understood something
that she didn't that's a really
interesting question why would you leave
Puerto Rico or why would you leave
Somalia and come here if it would if
immediately upon arrival you and your
children or your ass immediately have
grievances against your your new country
it doesn't make any sense I know I was
named after Victor Hansen it was killed
at Okinawa in the 6th Marine Division
and I read his letters all the time and
I can't believe that he died for a
country in which major people call it
garbage I just don't think that's what
he died for and each of us according to
our own station has to speak out and say
these people didn't die for that they
didn't die in the Civil War they didn't
they died for a better America not for
some person that knows nothing about and
I say that because of her empirically
from what she's been saying to subtly
level an accusation against an entire
dead generation I really I'm getting
very angry at this idea we attacked the
dead and we apply the standards of the
present when most of us in the physical
sense alone couldn't couldn't last a day
in a covered wagon or we wouldn't have
last but one moment at Shiloh and yet
all of a sudden these people
that's not why they're unhappy it's
because of our path that's something
deeper and to blame other people or
their parents or past generation for
their own inability to cope it's just
it's cowardly and yet the longer that we
let it go on and we don't challenge it
then we become culpable ourselves so
anyway it's off topic I've one last
question and then we'd love to turn it
to you in the audience to ask a few
questions as well professor I'm not
asking you to prognosticate and you know
make a specific prediction but do you
think that the odds that Trump will win
again in 2020 are there are they in his
favor would worry how do you see that I
think it's about fifty five forty five
for a couple of reasons three or four
reasons very quickly he's about at 42 to
45 depending on his Twitter week
he's about where Barack Obama and Bill
Clinton were at the beginning of the
third year both of them had worse
midterms Clinton lost 52 seats
Obama lost 63 seats Obama lost six
Senate seats Clinton lost eight Trump
lost 39 House seats maybe 40 and he
picked up two seats and then Clinton
demolished Bob Dole and and Obama won
handily over Mitt Romney so history
suggests that it's Trump's race to lose
that he has that power of incumbency
he's getting better I think his speeches
are better they're longer but they're
still better
I think he's sinking better he had so
many problems with this revolving door
cabinet sees but there's something about
this new triage of Pompeo a Secretary of
State and Bolton and especially bar at
when bar the other day was asked that
ambush question about the emergency
declaration
I think Jeff Sessions a good man but he
would have probably equivocate it and
who knows what rod Rosenstein would have
said but Barr just stood up for him and
so you get the impression that they do
genuinely believe in the Trump message
and that helps him and then he's not
running in a vacuum everybody thinks
that president's run in a vacuum it's
not a it's a mannequin choice between
something sometimes good or something
better or somebody bad and somebody
worse that's what Americans do their
practical pragmatist since 2016 probably
a quarter of the people who voted for
Trump just could not abide by the idea
of President Clinton Hillary Clinton
this time it depends on do they really
want to go the Mondale 84 as I said are
72 but when you put reparations and
infanticide is permissible abortion the
new Green Deal bowring the a bar in the
internal combustion engine Medicare for
all I can't even remember all 16 year
old voting and felons can vote in
Florida wealth tax we've never had an
already tax capital 90% rate you put all
that basket together and they're gonna
try to tar every nominee in that brutal
primary to endorse that
and so Trump will be we don't know how
well they're gonna tar those people but
Trump as it looks now will be able to
say you may not like me but I'm the only
thing standing between you and socialism
or worse
you know so the idea that Joe Biden who
said that George Bush should get on TV
the way that FDR did on 1929 when there
was neither TV nor FDR was president and
you know he said everything from gonna
put you back and change so I'm gonna
take Trump out buying the the gym and
that's the sober and judicious candidate
so we'll see but I think he has about a
fifty five percent chance barber will
depend on usually what ruins and
incumbency is a economic downturn or an
unpopular war or some sort of scandal I
I don't see him doing an optional
military large intervention I don't I
think the economy will survive a
recession and I think the Mueller
investigation I could go on all night
but I don't think they're gonna find
collusion that was its mandate so I
think he'll be it'll be up to how well
the campaign is run and how well he can
tag the opposition is something we've
never seen since 1932 question is if you
have a question we've have several
people in the audience our staff with
microphones if we can just wait to ask
your question but the microphone in your
hand we'll start right here Thank You
professor really appreciate it I'm
really enjoying also your online world
war two course thank you with Hillsdale
which is awesome
one fun question than one one I've been
thinking about lately who would you
think from your military history and
study kind of tactically Fitz Trump that
you might think of as far as instinctual
covering ground winning before the wars
even fought and then kind of a question
I've been thinking about the Bolshevik
Revolution where it wasn't too high a
percentage of people that were
Bolsheviks were actually in control of
the message that was out there I kind of
relate that with the media today so I
was wondering your thoughts on that yeah
well just a fun there are people in
American history that are very trumpian
William Tecumseh Sherman said to the
media on the march through Georgia I'm
gonna hang all of you if you don't if
you write another thing and then he he
he would have and he was considered
crazy in fact he was relieved to command
in 1862 and considered certifiably they
called it melancholy in those days
Patton if you look at Patton's personal
life and because we're in a polite
audience I won't mention things that
Patton did but they make Trump's look
pretty normal and if you did if you had
a sober and judicious and very wonderful
man like Omar Bradley Patton's immediate
superior he was a wonderful man but if
he had been commanding Third Army and
Patton was not there we would have lost
another 40,000 dead Curtis LeMay oh my
gosh
he said if we lose the war I'll be tried
as a war criminal but what he meant was
he took a a billion dollar Manhattan
Project
bigger than the Manhattan Project excuse
me the b-29 and he took it from 30,000
feet down to 7,000 feet and turned it
into a veritable dive bomber because the
bombs given the jet stream in the
altitude and then we're in the engine it
was not working it was a big disaster
and he took out 120 days 75 percent of
the industrial capacity of Japan and he
was on the cover of Time magazine and
considered a hero and by the early 60s
he was dr. strange
madman that we all hated that's sort of
what Trump is I think he's I said that
in the book he's a tragic hero as long
as we realize what that term means it
means somebody who's got particular
skill sets that we bring in whether it's
Shane or Gary Cooper in high noon or
John Wayne and The Searchers or the
Magnificent Seven and they start to
solve the problem but as they start to
solve the problem they give us the
luxury of being hyper critical and
critical of the methods they do that we
consider our saviors uncouth so I think
that as the economy gets better we can
we have the luxury now of criticizing
Trump I don't think Trump is going to be
invited to funerals after as presidents
or after he's out I don't think he'll be
considered a I think he'll do more for
the United States and most of our ex
presidents have that are alive and yet
he will not be accepted with the same
respect that they are and that's just
the tragedy of somebody right out of
Sophocles or maybe Dirty Harry testin
thank you very much I'm really concerned
about the lay of the land the federal
level state level for voter fraud and I
am hoping you can perhaps share some
insight on steps maybe that are in the
work excuse me in the works or can be
planned for to handle voter fraud you
all know what happened in Orange County
but my congressional representative was
a wonderful man David Bal Dail from
Portuguese immigrant family and he won
the midterm I think about 18% is his
internal polls were showing him 12 up on
the election week he won I think by five
points six points on Election Day he
lost by 500 votes so what happened is
was same-day registration in the new 19
2017 wall that said a non family member
could go to a home register and have the
vote and deliver to the register
hundreds of thousands of people took
data from the DMV and they said these
people fit a particular pattern the DMV
had said we had mixed people who were
here illegally with here non legally
with their licenses and he said it was
only a few thousand we don't know if
that's accurate but nevertheless they
were able to be very clever they didn't
do it in the midterm so all these
Republicans had won the midterms or at
least did better than their general
election opponent and they let down
their guard and then they were
overwhelmed with this brilliant but
Machiavellian strategy and the short
term there's nothing you can do unless
you change start changing the laws or
revert back what they were or you sue or
you both harvest and by that I mean you
get your own computer analytics and you
say there's this many Republicans are
conservative leaning people who didn't
register or they're registered and
didn't vote and I'm gonna have a guy go
to their home I'm gonna sit there until
they hand me the ballot that's a poor
support remedy for a democracy but I
don't know how you're gonna do in the
short I'm very worried and I think their
theoretical e the California
congressional district that so
Representatives only seven now out of 52
or 53 I think we could get down to one
or two with this vote harvesting and of
course if you object to it they've
already prepped the battlefield so
you're insensitive you're exclusionary
you're racist etc etc but it's a that's
a very good question there's no answer
yet to it over here we're very proud
that you're a California resident and as
someone who's looking to leave the state
because I believe strongly in a
two-party system and we don't have that
here what do you what recommendations do
you have for those of us in California
who are living here living in a
one-party state what what do you see
what hope is there well my only hope is
I guess herb Stein said Nixon's economic
by anything that can't go on won't go
so you have a state now where this was a
paradise in the 70s and 80 we had good
governance governor here but we have the
highest basket I think we're second or
maybe we're first with a 13-point to top
rate of income tax we're about number
three in sales tax our gas tax will be
number one most expensive and yet when
you look for commiserate advantages many
of the ratings of our infrastructure
were 47 I think 48 or high school and
eighth grade test scores about 45 we
have some of the highest skill a second
highest kilowatt rates in the United
States its third highest overall
gasoline's
I think we have 21% of the state lives
below the poverty line we have one third
of all welfare recipients so whatever
happened if we had the worst of both
worlds it's very expensive for the
middle class to live here and you get
very little in return and so that can't
go on for much longer when I go to Palo
Alto and I see that very wealthy people
who virtue signaled their liberality and
they live these expansive homes in
Woodside and beautiful homes an old pal
Walter and Atherton then I go back where
I live in salmo rural Fresno County and
on an August day when it's 109 outside
Hispanic families are in Walmart they're
not there to buy things they're taking
their whole family because they cannot
afford to turn on the air-condition and
that's even with lifeline rates so it
seems to me that there is a potential of
a lot of emerging people of a
non-traditional middle class and they're
starting to ask questions why do I have
to pay the highest gasoline why do I
have the highest electricity why is the
99 freeway a deathtrap who in the world
created this debacle Stonehenge Matt
high-speed rail monstrosity over the
Fresno why didn't we build the three
reservoirs these are not right when
people asking those questions and when
they get when they start I think
they'll start to resemble at some point
the rebellions we had with the Reagan
Revolution in the 60s and 70s but we're
not there yet as to get a little worse
I'm afraid before they get angry because
but I know a lot of people I have
Mexican American people within my family
and a lot of people are asking questions
that are very embarrassing wires dianne
feinstein attacking catholicism why is
kamala harris attacking the Knights of
Columbus who dreamed up the idea you
could kill a baby and call it abortion
who who who told us that transgendered
restrooms were the most important thing
in California so we'll see what happens
but I think that that constituency I am
not sure won't gradually become a little
bit more conservative we have time for
two more questions I'm going to go here
given your knowledge and and the
parallels you've given us today and
written in about in your book let's
imagine for a minute that Ronald Reagan
was alive in here and could actually
give President Trump some advice what do
you imagine that would be well they
hated but we forget now the degree to
which they hated Reagan and we forget I
was so shocked that when George W Bush
came to Hoover and gave a nice speech
but I don't think he realized how much
they hated him just in 2007 and 8 they
called him a Nazi they vote articles
about killing him but Reagan they really
hated but Reagan had that and I I don't
know as much nearly as the people here
at the Reagan Library but he had a
unique ability to smile and laugh at all
and he was when he had a winning
character a personality so Trump has
elements of that when during the
Cavanaugh hearing you remember that
moment it's the best moment he's had mr.
presidency someone said will cavern you
think Cavanaugh drunk drank too much
no but I know that if I did I'd be a
total disaster can you imagine me with
alcohol that's why I never that was kind
of off the cuff Reagan and if Trump I
think Reagan would tell him I know that
I had the establishment finally behind
me but you know I was a renegade in 68
and 76 when I tried to get the
nomination and they said I was crazy so
I I've gone through what you have but
you got a role you've got to be a little
bit you've got to have some moment your
life or you can disarm your critics
through calmness or laughter jocular
language rather than just go for the
jugular every single time and then I
think Trump would say yeah it's easy for
you to say but now Lee I'll leave it at
that yeah last question I'm sorry that
will go up here a friend in the balcony
professor Hanson a piece of strategic
advice if the election was being held
right now what would you suggest a
president Trump should be his major
slogan or message his main slogan other
than I saved you all
I'd say yourself I would say it's
something like America's great again
something like that
but what he really needs to do is that I
think I get frustrated because everybody
who doesn't have any responsibilities
has all these ideas whose consequences
we never suffer they go bad but what I
would suggest to him is that the
Democratic Party is so front-loaded into
identity politics and tribalism that
they've lost the white working classes
whether they like it or not
the percentages are astounding and the
number of people who don't have college
degrees we know now is larger than the
people who do and college is getting a
hit even more with this admittance
scandal but what I'm getting at is that
Trump has done more for minority voters
than Democrat then Obama ever did we
have record low a black unemployment we
have record low Hispanic unemployment
abortion has devastated the
african-american Jesse Jackson of all
people called it genocide no person has
been more adamantly against the present
abortion practices than Donald Trump
Issa and that's been very good for
minorities that message he's he's not
anti religious he's not anti-semitic
he's not anti-catholic and those strains
are deeply now embedded within the
Democratic Party closing the border and
having legal mara Craddock measured and
diverse immigration helps entry-level
workers it doesn't cut their wages
through cash off the books undercutting
labor so he's got a lot of winning
arguments for the minority and what I'm
getting at is that he doesn't need to
win 40 percent of the African American
vote or 50 percent Latino vote for those
people who identify themselves as
Latinos or Alfred he just needs 20
percent 15 percent the african-american
vote 40 percent and the Democrats their
whole calculus is shattered because
they've lost such this old working-class
Hubert Humphrey worker so that's what I
really really like to see in
do is go out with spokespeople and go
into the inner city he'd be booed but if
he just keeps his cool I think that
would be it would pay enormous dividends
and he's already starting to do that a
little bit I hope he can continues
that's that's what most fight was a
Democratic Party you really want you to
stick around if you can to visit with
Professor Hansen and get this book it's
going to be one of the best books you've
read in years
[Applause]
[Music]